Okay,
guys,
we're almost at the end of this particular project,
and they're what we want to do is define a working area.
So we've We've done awful lot of work in our formulas over here and over here and over here
.
Andi.
Ideally,
what we want to do is hide those from the view of the user,
because all we want them to see is this particular area just here.
So all we're gonna do is we're going to select column G Hold down,
shift control on,
right arrow,
go all the way across,
right.
Click and choose Hide and they go this there successfully hidden away.
And then we're going to scroll down to the bottom will probably leave a blank line.
I'm going to select that line.
Hit control shift,
Andi Down Arrow.
And I'm going to right click Onda hide their So they go near the only working area.
The only wants visible to the user is this particular area here.
Now we're going to a little bit more tidying up,
so let's just come over to the time sheets.
I don't think we have any stray data there.
No.
So that's all good expenses.
We have these things that we've had it.
So let's cook that on groups.
Let's just delete those delete delete.
Andi.
Yeah,
that looks pretty good.
Okay,
So what we going to do in this lesson is we're gonna have a look at how we protect workbook
so that a user can actually,
either unhygienic play around with the formulas that you've worked so hard to create on,
basically break everything.
So the first thing that we need to do is select the value of particular cell and say
whether it is creditable or not creditable.
So what we're gonna do is we're gonna right click on our first data entry,
sell on.
We're going to choose format cells on what we're gonna do here.
Now,
we have a number of options in the format cells,
and the the one we're interested in is the last one that saves protection on what we're
gonna do is just untech the locked option there and click.
OK,
then we're just gonna move to whips these Let me just scroll down.
I'm just gonna select all of these areas that we want them to be able to edit.
And I'm just holding down the control buttons so I can select noncontiguous sets of data on
again.
I'm just going to right click choose format cells come to the protection tab on click the
Locked.
So it's unchecked.
Okay?
And they're What we want to do is go to the review tab just up here,
left click.
And you can see we have a variety of options in changes just here so we can protect sheets
or protect workbook or share What workbook?
What We're gonna do this?
We only want to protect the sheet.
Here at the moment is we're just going to click protect sheet on.
We can see that we get this box pop up here now,
if you want to password,
protect it,
go ahead.
But seriously,
hold Recommend writing down the password because it's really,
really difficult to recover this if you if you manage to forget it.
So what we want to do is protect worksheets and contents of locked cells,
which is everything that we didn't just change the format tab to say unlocked.
So what the hell out what the users will be allowed to use in this workbook there will be
allowed currently to select locked cells.
We don't want them to be able to do that.
We do want them to be able to select a locked cells,
which are all these areas in blue.
We don't want them to be able to format cells or format columns or any of these other
options in here.
So we're gonna do,
say hello users to select unlocked cells and click.
OK,
okay.
You can see because we were in this cell immediately.
Our curse has flipped over to this cell because it is the last cell or the first cell after
this,
so that the user can edit.
So if I hit the tab key,
you can see that now we've moved over to here when I hit the tab key again.
What it's gonna do is look for the entire rest of this line and see if there's another cell
that we can edit.
And there isn't because this is the next look sell.
So if we weaken tab and it will happily only allow the user to select the cells that we've
said that they can select.
Okay,
so now they can click this liking quickly.
Second,
click anywhere in the blue area on they can choose their things and change their answers,
but they're not going to be able to slight any of these cells or on hide any of these on
play with the formulas and break it.
So there you go.
That's how you protect your worksheet.
Okay.
See you in the next lecture.